Good afternoon esteemed judges. I'm Javen, the presenter for my group senquan.

The goal of this presentation is to explain how you can determine a reasonable selling price for a HDB located in the central area of Singapore using my group's dashboard.

Here are the key questions we had in mind while creating our visualizations.

Does the location affect the resale prices or a HDB flat? Does the proximity to malls and MRTs influence resale price of a flat? Does the floor level of the flat affect the resales demand of flats? And lastly, can the resale price of a HDB flat be calculated?

- location affects resale prices. flats at kelantan road fetch a lower resale price than an average flat, while flats at cantonment road resales for twice as much of an average flat.

- ALL HDBs in central area have a Mall and MRT within walking distance of 600metres, and being slightly nearer to these amenities does not lead to increased resale price. Hence, one should not factor in proximity to amenities when calculating the resale price of a HDB.

- Moving up, we can see that most flats resold from 2017 to 2020 are on floors 4 to 18. Its also noticable that resale prices skyrocket up as the floor level increases, which could either be due to the scarcity in high-rise flats or because singaporeans like high rise flats and are willing to pay a premium for it. 

To estimate an accurate resale price of a HDB flat in central area, we can MULTIPLY the square area of the flat by the average price psm.

We can then adjust the price based on the street where the HDB is located, if the street has a resale price above average, increase the calculated price accordingly.

Finally, we can know how high we can push the price by factoring which floor the flat is on. The higher the flat, the more the resale price can be increased.

I have come to the end of my presentation, and I hope my findings will help with make an informed decision towards buying a resale flat in the central area of singapore. Thank you for your kind attention.
